Refactors JS client helper documentation (#1358)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _clients/javascript/helpers.md

---
layout: default
title: Helper methods
parent: JavaScript client
nav_order: 2
---

# Helper methods

> This section is currently incomplete. It does not yet cover all helper methods and their options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Helper methods allow you to abstract certain API tasks. 

This section is currently incomplete. It does not yet cover all helper methods and their options.
```

Author: Reworded.

| `flushBytes` | Integer | Maximum bulk body size to send in bytes. Optional. Default is 5,000,000. 
| `flushInterval` | Integer | Time in milliseconds to wait before flushing the body after the last document has been read. Optional. Default is 30,000.
| `onDocument` | Function | A function to be invoked with each document in the given `datasource`. It returns the operation to be executed for this document. Optionally, the document can be manipulated for `create` and `index` operations by returning a new document as part of the function's result. Required.
| `onDrop` | Function | A function to be invoked for every document that can’t be indexed after reaching the maximum amount of retries. Optional. Default is `noop`.
| `refreshOnCompletion` | Boolean | Whether a refresh should be run on all affected indices at the end of the bulk operation. Optional. Default is false.
| `retries` | Integer | The number of times an operation is retried before `onDrop` is called for that document. Optional. Defaults to the client's  `maxRetries` value.
| `wait` | Integer | Time in milliseconds to wait before retrying an operation. Optional. Default is 5,000.

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we bubble the required params to the top of this list, and make it easier to see that they are required? One way of doing this is having a column called `required / default` that either states that param is required or a default value, if any, when it's optional:

 Option | Data type | Required / Default | Description 
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :---
| `datasource` | An array, async generator or a readable stream of strings or objects | REQUIRED | Represents the documents you need to create, delete, index or update.
| `concurrency` | Integer | 5 | The number of requests to be executed in parallel.
| `flushBytes` | Integer | 5,000,000. | Maximum bulk body size to send in bytes.

Thank you and great work :-)

Author: Done

---
layout: default
title: Helper methods
parent: JavaScript client
nav_order: 2
---

# Helper methods

This section is currently incomplete. It does not yet cover all helper methods and their options.
{: .warning }

Helper methods simplify the use of complicated API tasks.

## Bulk helper

> Running bulk requests can be complex because of the API structure. The bulk helper aims to provide a nicer developer experience around the Bulk API.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Running bulk requests can be complex because of the API structure. The bulk helper aims simplifies the developer experience with the Bulk API.
```

### Usage

The following code creates a bulk helper instance:

```javascript
const { Client } = require('@opensearch-project/opensearch')
const documents = require('./docs.json')

const client = new Client({ ... })

const result = await client.helpers.bulk({
  datasource: documents,
  onDocument (doc) {
    return {
      index: { _index: 'example-index' }
    }
  }
})

console.log(result)
```

Bulk helper operations return an object with the following fields:

```json
{
  total: number,
  failed: number,
  retry: number,
  successful: number,
  time: number,
  bytes: number,
  aborted: boolean
}
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

#### Helper configuration options
```

Author: Added

When creating a new bulk helper instance, you can use the following configuration options.

| Option | Data type | Required/Default | Description 
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :---
| `datasource` | An array, async generator or a readable stream of strings or objects | Required | Represents the documents you need to create, delete, index or update. 
| `onDocument` | Function | Required | A function to be invoked with each document in the given `datasource`. It returns the operation to be executed for this document. Optionally, the document can be manipulated for `create` and `index` operations by returning a new document as part of the function's result.
| `concurrency` | Integer | Optional. Default is 5. | The number of requests to be executed in parallel. 
| `flushBytes` | Integer |  Optional. Default is 5,000,000. | Maximum bulk body size to send in bytes.
| `flushInterval` | Integer |  Optional. Default is 30,000. | Time in milliseconds to wait before flushing the body after the last document has been read.
| `onDrop` | Function | Optional. Default is `noop`. | A function to be invoked for every document that can’t be indexed after reaching the maximum amount of retries. 

> | `refreshOnCompletion` | Boolean | Optional. Default is false. | Whether a refresh should be run on all affected indices at the end of the bulk operation. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `refreshOnCompletion` | Boolean | Optional. Default is false. | Whether or not a refresh should be run on all affected indices at the end of the bulk operation. 
```
